= RELEASE HISTORY

== 1.3.0 / 2011-10-30

This release adds a few additional features, see changes list below. It also 
changes the license to BSD-2-Clause and modernizes the build configuration.

Changes:

* Add `--recent` command to check if up to date.
* Add `--no-head` option to suppress header.
* Improve help system with man-page.
* Update output shows diff if file changed.
* Modernize build configuration.
* Switch to BSD-2-Cluase license.


== 1.3.0 / 2010-11-21

Version 1.3 primarily makes a few adjustment under-the-hood. It switches
GetoptLong out for OptionParser, gets rid of it's dependency on Ruby Facets'
Kernel#ask method, and changes the diff comment short name from `-d` to `-D`.
Lowecase `-d` is now used as a short name for the `--dir` option. In the
process a bug was fixed where this `-d` option was not being added to the
manifest's bang line. Lastly, the `-s`/`--show` option has been renamed to
`-b`/`--bang`, which is more descriptive.

Changes:

* Use `optparse.rb` library instead of `getoptlong.rb`.
* Remove dependency on Ruby Facets's Kernel#ask method.
* Rename `-d` to `-D`, short for `--diff`.
* Add `-d` option to go with `--dir`.
* Fix issue with `-d` option not added to bang line.
* Rename `-s`/`--show` option to `-b`/`--bang`.


== 1.2.0 / 2010-02-19

This release adjusts the plugins directory to conform
to the new Plugin gem and add the -i shortcut to the 
command-line help.

Changes:

* Rename lib/plugin to lib/plugins.
* Add -i to help output.


== 1.1.0 / 2009-10-24

This release fixes the show and clean commands and makes
some additional adjustments under the hood.

Changes:

* Fix clean and show commands.
* Change to MIT license.


== 1.0.0 / 2009-07-02

This is the initial release of Mast.

Changes:

* Happy Birthday!

