= Mast

* home: http://proutils.github.com/mast/
* work: http://github.com/proutils/mast/
* wiki: http://wiki.github.com/proutils/mast/

== DESCRIPTION

Mast is a commandline utility for generating MANIFEST and DIGEST lists.
It can be useful in conjunction with packaging tools (such as Box),
or as a stand-alone tool for monitoring file changes.


== FEATURES

* Intuitive command-line interface --simply specify what to include.
* Self-referential header makes updating manifests easy.
* Checksum digests can highlight file changes.


== USAGE

Mast makes the process of generating manifests very easy, and even allows manifests
to be updated without repeating inclusion/exclusion criteria by storing the command
parameters in a comment line at the top of the generated output.

Lets try a simple example. Lets say we have the following folder structure, using 
<tt>ls -R</tt> we see:

    $ ls -R
    .:
    demo_rtar  mint

    ./demo_rtar:
    Lorem_ipsum.txt  lib  meta  web

    ./demo_rtar/lib:
    demo_rock

    ./demo_rtar/lib/demo_rock:
    tryme.rb

    ./demo_rtar/meta:
    data

    ./demo_rtar/web:
    index.html  rocklobster.jpg

    ./mint:
    loremipsum.txt  tryme.rb

Now lets look at the same folder via 'mast'.

    $ mast
    #!mast
    demo_rtar
    demo_rtar/Lorem_ipsum.txt
    demo_rtar/lib
    demo_rtar/lib/demo_rock
    demo_rtar/lib/demo_rock/tryme.rb
    demo_rtar/meta
    demo_rtar/meta/data
    demo_rtar/web
    demo_rtar/web/index.html
    demo_rtar/web/rocklobster.jpg
    mint
    mint/loremipsum.txt
    mint/tryme.rb

As you can see it has listed all the files contained in the current folder. Notice also the first
line is empty except for the '#' character. This is a standard shell comment mark. We can specify
special criteria to the mast command and these options will be reflected on this line. For example,
lets say the mint directory is extraneous and we do not want it included in the list of files.

    $ mast -x mint
    #!mast -x mint
    demo_rtar
    demo_rtar/Lorem_ipsum.txt
    demo_rtar/lib
    demo_rtar/lib/demo_rock
    demo_rtar/lib/demo_rock/tryme.rb
    demo_rtar/meta
    demo_rtar/meta/data
    demo_rtar/web
    demo_rtar/web/index.html
    demo_rtar/web/rocklobster.jpg

So you can see how the commandline options carry over to the top comment line of the ouput. The advantage of
this is that if you save the output to a standard location, i.e. a file named MANIFEST or meta/manifest with
an optional .txt prefix (case insensitive), then you can automaitcally update the file by calling +mast --update+.

    $ mast -x mint > MANIFEST

    $ mast --update
    MANIFEST updated.

You can also add a checksum to the file list to create a *DIGEST*.

    $ mast -x mint -g sha1

Mast also provides options for ignoring files based on their basename, as well
as omitting default excludes and ignores so that all files are lists. Use the
--help option for more details.


== HOW TO INSTALL

To install with RubyGems simply open a console and type:

  gem install mast

Local installation requires Setup.rb (gem install setup),
then download the tarball package and type:

  tar -xvzf mast-1.0.0.tgz
  cd mast-1.0.0.tgz
  sudo setup.rb all

Windows users use 'ruby setup.rb all'.


== COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2009 Thomas Sawyer <transfire@gmail.com>

This program is ditributed unser the terms of the MIT license.

See LICENSE or COPYING file for details.

